It is not my place to provide worthy, overbearing reviews of others.

I have found standards organizations to be highly impartial and very effective at accurately
condensing the literature. 


 WHO, FCC, ICNIRP, 

 I hasten to re-emphasize that I believe the standards as currently set are 
 definitively safe. 


However, at the risk of making a fool of myself, I would like to note a few cases in IEEE and 
that seem to display a very slight fatiguing of the abundantly precautionary principles that guide, for instance, clinical practice.

I have approached this with a mind towards clinical protocol. If this were a drug in some phase 3 trial,
per some FDA's reguirements, would the evidence suffice? 
This is a strange perspective for what seems to often be considered a simple engineering problem.




"Rodents were subjected to ... authors concluded that “…humans exposed under similar conditions would show
no acute injurious biological effects.""

In isolation, this does not seem a sound statment. If you offer rats a drug, and no changes are found,
it is not possible to then claim that the drug is safe. In the context of the study it may make more
sense.

"Adair [1] also debated the basis of Albanese’s theses. He suggested that “a 1 MV/m
pulse with at width of 1 ns should be quite safe”. "


Adair was referring to a mechanistic basis, so "should" makes some kind of sense. But it is still a worrying turn of phrase.


A unanimous consensus (see Chapter 7) was obtained at the final meeting (following around the table
accounting). The consensus statement [68] drafted by all was later rescinded by two nations entering abstentions.
Turkey member, Dr. Seyhan stated that “complete removal of the standard is not appropriate unless we have
more data from experiments on the subject. I think that it is reasonable to keep the current standards as they
are” [82]. French member, Dr. Debouzy [23] cited an unpublished study by RTG HFM-189 member Dr. de Seze
and wrote that “presently it is not possible to build currently systems able to obtain systems strong enough to
reach biological deleterious effects; however, the results mentioned by René preclude for us to remove at
national level the corresponding measurements until these results are published, replicated and infirmed or
confirmed. Consider that our abstention is included in your general consensus process.” Here again it is evident
that it is difficult to remove an exposure limit shown by over 50 years of research as unnecessary. A paradigm
once set is truly difficult to shift. 


Perhaps I am reading too far into this. Two members agree to sign a document in person,
then later change their minds. That sounds an awful lot like the introduction to a human-factors
chapter in a textbook; an organization where the safety culture has slightly degraded; where dissenting 
opinions are very subtly derided.


My engineering professor once noted along the lines of the following:

"Scientists are just engineers that look too much into the details."

That might well be true.


In section 2.5:

> A Kuhnian paradigm shift [57] usually occurs when anomalous results are
obtained and they persist following much scientific discussion and work and then a new paradigm emerges.
Typically, however, an existing paradigm is supported and the anomaly is revealed to be pathological [58].

> In other words, de Seze et al. [31] is an “anomaly” until
replicated and validated (and published) with sufficient documentation of exposure conditions and control
for ionizing contamination. In order to change the “true” and current paradigm of no HPPP-EMF limit
(IEEE C95.1-2345TM-2014), actually many, additional “anomalies” must accumulate.



> It is therefore necessary that a paradigm shift be made from prudently avoiding or 
being precautious based on insufficient scientific data to establishing
exposure guidelines in accordance with sound scientific data.


These points are made are correct, and the points they make about the literature are correct, salient, and
wise. 

It is not 






Osepchuk, in an otherwise very enlightening expression of concern on a paper by Belyaev,


"

Reviewers and editors, please take note."

In fact, the effect that was noted in the comment was apparently well controlled for.
So the explanation is wrong. The reason why it is wrong may perhaps be very interesting.

This paper is probably nonsense; its claims are extreme.








But in at least two notable instances, IEEE standards have deviated from what I would consider perfect scientific conduct.

If you have spent your entire professional career fighting against inane, misguided interpretations and irreducible results, it is very human . But I expect better than human. when statements like the following "" are made, I cannot.

Bringing up Kuhnian paradigms (a philospher who, I might add, once threw an ashtray at a dissenter)[1] in response to a co-worker's otherwise reasonable objection 

Consider, for instance, the diatribe in , or the con


[1] I have also said and done reprehensible things out of anger. That must be allowed to reflect negatively on my character.

