
Built up the prescaler, with attenuator and 50R pulldowns. 
Connected to the 0dbM output of the VCO. Not a sausage. 
Added an AC coupling cap to the first stage. No dice.

Removed 10db attenuator. Worked perfectly!

Replaced the 50rs with 100rs to avoid overdriving the outputs.

The x4 stage definitely cuts out at 2.8 V.

By varying the x4 stage VCC voltage, I can get the freq. to vary by as much as 1 GHz. that's no good!
Looks like that's due to jitter and missed transitions.

It also occasionally drops out completely. I don't know if that's the input dropping below the threshold, or the output.

Really has trouble above 11GHz, presumably because of the threshold

Thought it was an input bias issue, doesn't seem like it.

Tried using the probe to measure the amplified line. Only read about 3629 MHz. 

Directly connected the VCO back to the preamp. The x4 stages are off.
Now, if I raise the VCO freq, I see the entire spectrum light up.

Removing the prescaler amp appears to fix this problem; the prescaler remains stable to 12 GHz.

So there's something between the interaction of the amplified signal and the
prescaler input that's causing the problem.

Increasing the amplifier pullup to 100R only minimally improved things.

We have our first case of poor grounding causing an issue! The prescaler amplifier tab
was connected to a copper pour. Strapping this pour to a nearby pad seems to have improved the
frequency response a bit.

This thing puts out so much emi, the power sensor is reading 35 mV!

Now we have a problem. The f vs tuning voltage graph for the HMC732 says we should expect 
~8 GHz at 5.2v GHz. However, on the /4 stage output we actually see 1100 khz, or 9 GHz!

The HMC732 is reporting the correct value of 8260 MHz.

Decreasing Vcc, we get 808 khz on output, which is 6600 MHz!

At 6 GHz, 5v thresholds, 100r pullup, we have perfect agreement. Peak signal level is about -25 dB.

7 GHz: same. Peak signal level is now a few db below.
8GHz: same.
8.2: same. Perfect aggreement.
9: there's no longer a peak to check.

The behavior when it unlocks versus when there's no input signal is pretty similar. I
think there just isn't a high enough signal level to check!

Connecting the probe to the power microstrip only bleeds off a small amount of power - 
maybe 0.1 v. The losses from this coax seem to be pretty high.

It would have been very helpful to put a diode detector on all the segments of this prescaler.
Oh well.

Removing the termination resistor and connecting the coax directly to the output of the 
high-power strip, still can't get the nice and pretty regime.
Ah, that's because I didn't solder it right. Re-soldered. At 5v we get the pretty regime
for about half the spectrum.

Re-soldered the connector on the prescaler, connecting directly to the ground plane now.
Slightly better, I think. Still not good enough for any kind of metrology.


This RG-316 coax is only specced to /3 GHz!

Using a single-diode detector didn't work for some reason. using the grounded-diode works great.


Oh man, having this diode detector probe is amazing. Had to use an 0603 capacitor as the ac-coupling
probe; but now we can see, for instance, that there is 0.5v of RF on both amplifier "grounding" pads;
there is a clear standing wave on the 

The middle of the two-inductor bias tee is wiggling a lot; replacing this with 1 1.5 uH would be better.



It would be helpful to be able to click on a virtual PCB where this testpoint was made, 
building up a gradual simulation of the

Trying to back up and vanquish all resonances and losses bit by bit.

The output of the VCO is very small indeed,
and imperceptible at above 6 V.

There was ~70 mV of RF on the ground pour; tried the solder+copper bottom via technique, iddn't work,
used some copper wire, no change in the output.

Now this is very interesting - we now have a proper VNA sort of thing. The two peaks that I saw in the 
spectrum analyzer are now super prominent.

Continue on elab for plots.





