
Kotnik has a good body of work in this field. Not FDTD wave-propagation like, but close enough. 
Kotnik 2006 gives a kotnik 1998-like laplace method for organelles (huge increase in organelle)

Kotnik 2000 (second-order) discusses relaxation (debye) effects a little more, but not much


There's a curious pulse that looks like an AC-coupling, negative polarity, 
that occurs near tau_2 and with the same relaxation time. It's extremely high amplitude compared
to the rest of the pulse...not sure if it's an artifact?
occurs even if only a single ramp is used - might be due to the inflection point of t=0?


it might be difficult to solve the thing for a maximum-value constraint;
however, integrating is probably an even better way

neither Mathematica or sympy 

grosse and schwan 1992 actually explicitly consider a surface conductance. very important stuff in notes

can we take the fourier transform rather than the laplace?

"If the transfer function of a system is given by H(s), then the impulse response of a system is given by h(t) where h(t) is the inverse Laplace Transform of H(s)."

I guess we could try 

two problems with Lagrange multipliers in the complex plane: what is the energy constraint ? probably needs a contour integral. How do do?

H-FIRE  (high frequency electroporation)

integrating over the complex plane to get the amp requires contour integration

so the inverse laplace transform seems to exist for kotnik's laplace transform.
interesting

oh yay, lagrange multiplier over the complex plane!


both finite element and multigrid work - interesting


thinking about how we make a "power transfer function" (to get the absolute value) - the answer
https://electronics.stackexchange.com/questions/31652/transfer-function-of-a-full-bridge-diode-rectifier
seems to be that it's not possible?

The requirement of linearity fails for a diode (i.e., f(ax)≠af(x) for a<0), 
and thus the traditional definition of "transfer function" carries little meaning. 
The best you can do is come up with a mathematical expression for the output.

tried Differential 