


As the sweep speed increases, however, the dot becomes dimmer; lower electron flux. 
One solution is to run the thing hotter and with a smaller dot, like microoscillographs. 

Direct electron to photographic plate is sometimes used, too.
Image intensifiers, or microchannel electron multipliers can help 
(angled holes cause collisions, secondary electrons are emitted by the dielectric and accelerated, or electron beam induced conductivity). 

The propagation speed of the beam leads to a lag; however this shouldn't be a huge issue.


Scan converters like the 7912 can form a vidicon tube. 

Modern sensors have a layer of glass right on the sensor, which seems very hard to remove.

However, old VGA sensors have a package with a glass window offset from the bare sensor die
[Servoli 2011]. Happened to have a suitable webcam.

UV eproms apparently have a "threshold" that can be measured and can be written with an e-beam
in the same way.

Broke the sensor glass by scoring with carbide pushing with thumb and removing the fragments.
putting tape over would probably have been a good idea. A few pixels are dead.

Sensor is 3.5 mm by 3 or so. 

delay lines look like a good option for triggering.


hdcs - 1020

whatever

sensor noise floor is 70 e- / pixel. pretty good.

couldn't get the first sensor to seal. destroyed it.

broke open a coby snapp camera. same sort of sensor. this time the window was held on with a
silicone elastomer. broke it, jet of 425c air melted the silicone and it came off. 
might not have even had to break it.

hey, the deflection will have to 

bloody annoying to seal this up.

FUSES! glass tubes, right diameter! just need to drill a fine hole 

got some phosphor from a broken tube. hard to keep it from vanishing.

they'll probably hold a fine vacuum, too...

use copper tube as the vacuum line.

-------------------oh, did I have the polarity right?-------------------

"Bussmann
does not offer hermetically sealed fuses for this type of
application"

doesn't seem like fuses are actually sealed...

it's pretty hard to get a seal to the sensor.

glass fuses pop pretty violently when heated with 425 c air.
just epoxy on the ends. comes off easily.

"in-vacuum ccd camera"


might be able to drive a laser with one of those ECL picosecond drivers, then operate
a photoconductive switch?

Auston switch

sipms only do a few ns
oh, no, scratch that, that's the pulse width - the rise time of a TSV spim is ~90 ps @25v!

huh, there are electron detectors on digikey AXUV20HS1


seems like Reuven's team is working on this. might want to shoot an email to let them know
about the problems

the SCAs use DB9 connectors, but actually are not EGA/CGA but VGA
just needs a pin remapping

------------------------------------

using rpi camera 

ov57

1.3 micron pixels, a few kiloelectron full well, 10-bit readout. pretty sweet sensor.

the controller board with the flat flex could be glued onto the 

other people sanded it down or cut into the back epoxy. didn't need to do that.
just used a pair of snippers to get the first pre-glass lens mount off to access the 
ir filter glass

lots of plastic on this guy. 

outside is a larger diameter piece of aluminum

drilled a slot in a 1/16" alu plate for the flat flex. 2 mm or so wide.


jb weld cures in 30 minutes if heated to 90c, apparently.
storage temp for the image sneor seems to be 70c. will do.

------------------------------------

transit time distortion is going to be an issue.

ultrasonic systems use the same scan converter tubes

pumping down through the 0.1 mm aperture is going to be a pain;
for this reason I am going to pump down from the camera side

one of the electrodes should be put to a half-way voltage by two resistor dividers

rpi zero has a different CSI connector
you can do an adaptor
dammit

OK led on old pi 1 a is dim apparently corrupt sd can do 
try fix

well, that fixed it









